Our application takes into consideration the entire Disaster Management Cycle, right from before the natural disaster strikes to the response and recovery actions undertaken after the disaster occurs. Considering the various stages of a natural disaster we intend our application to do the following things:
1.	Forecasting and Warning - Not all disasters, like earthquakes, can be predicted. However, in the case of events like flood and cyclones, warnings can be given way in advance. The warnings regarding cyclones is given by the Meteorological Department and those regarding floods is given by the Central Water Commission. Now, we would link our application to these organisations and offer regular warnings and notifications depending on the proximity of the user to the site where the disaster is expected to occur.
2.	Preparedness- If on the basis of location data, we see that the user is in the region where the disaster is expected to occur, then we provide the user notifications and messages as to how to get prepared for the disaster, by stockpiling food and water, having a first aid kit prepared, keeping flashlights charged, etc. Also, the user would be notified about the nearest shelter camps for safe evacuation before disaster strikes. Also, the application would predict where the rescue teams should be first sent for evacuation purposes on the basis of the likelihood of the places to be most affected by the impending disaster.
3.	After disaster strikes:
Once the disaster has struck, our aim is to contain the damage caused by it. The various features that we would provide for are:
•	The application would allow those people who want to work as volunteers to register themselves so that they can be called upon when required.
•	Depending on the severity of the disaster as well as the regions most affected by the disaster, it would organise volunteers into groups and assign them to various locations with various tasks.
•	On the basis of the regions most affected, the application would decide where the relief camps and in-field hospitals should be set up. Depending on the place where the disaster took place, the nearby hospitals would be notified to be prepared for an increased influx of patients.
•	A database of all the people rescued, staying in the relief camps, as well as the casualties would be maintained and regularly updated. This would enable their relatives and family members to search for them by making queries through the application itself in the database.
•	Inventory Management- An inventory would be maintained that would keep a record of all the goods and resources that we have in order to ensure that we have appropriate amount of them. Also, an inventory of the various medicines would be made to assess whether adequate amount is there or not. 
•	The application would track resource allocation in order to ensure that all the relief camps are provided with adequate amount of goods and medicines.
•	It would enable people trapped at certain places to request for help and based on their location data, a rescue team will be dispatched to that place.
•	It would also allow people to donate to the relief funds as well as contribute various necessities like food stuffs, bottled water, medicines, etc.
•	In case there is shortage of volunteers or resources then on the basis of the regions most affected, the application would decide which places to be targeted first.
•	Based on the data from where most help requests are coming, rescue teams will be dispatched on that priority basis.
         

